Effective communication skills in the workplace. While schooling prepares
us for some things, there usually isn't enough of a
focus on how to communicate effectively. This can leave professionals
with no idea what to focus on to improve their
skills or where they may be lacking. Luckily, communication skills
are easy to build as long as we retain awareness
of them. Listening. While this one seems like a
no-brainer, you might not be shocked by how many coworkers
and bosses fail this basic skill test. Being a good
listener is the most advised way to communicate because you
understand the conversation much better if you know what's been
said. Tip to improve listening:
five steps to practice active listening. One, pay attention.
Two, ask clarifying questions. Three, rephrase what they said to
ensure understanding. Four, repeat as needed.
Friendliness. Miss Manners loves this one for a reason.
Being friendly and creating an open environment go a long
way in workplace communications. Smiles are great for this, as
long as they are genuine. Being friendly lets people feel
like they can and should talk to you. Tips to
improve friendliness: personalize whenever possible. When you're sending an email
or seeing someone in the hall, saying, "Hi, Bill," or
"Good morning, Susan, how was your coffee today?" makes you
more approachable. Smile. Think of something funny to make it
genuine and natural. Open-mindedness.
Being open-minded is the ability to consider other points of
view without staunchly sticking to your own. Open-minded workers are
not married to their own ideas, opening communication channels and
idea workshopping. This makes everyone feel valid and supported.
Tip to improve open-mindedness: adopt a policy of listening to
reasoning before every decision is made. Try phrases like, "This
is my reasoning. Can you explain yours, and we can
agree which we should go with?" Or, "Can you help
me understand your point of view?" Feedback.
Giving and receiving feedback is a critical skill in every
workplace. Without feedback, workers cannot know whether their methods are
effective or need improvement. Therefore, everyone should look for ways
to improve their feedback skills when giving and receiving. Tip
to improve feedback: try not to focus on "buts". We
often hear people start feedback with a compliment that is
immediately erased by a "but". For example, "I like the
layout of this presentation, but your content wasn't right." Instead,
use the compliment sandwich: "The presentation was great visually, and
I really liked the layout. Once we work on elevating
the content, it'll be perfect. Since you already have such
a great organization of the ideas, we should be able
to punch the content up easily." Are you enjoying this
video so far? Please give us feedback by liking or
disliking this episode. Thank you. Nonverbal communication.
Nonverbal communication accounts for seventy to ninety-three percent of communication,
meaning that even when we're silent, people get up to
ninety-three percent of a message, even if it's not the
one we think we're sending. So by learning how to
leverage nonverbal communication properly, we can ensure we're sending the
right message. Tips to improve nonverbal communication:
make and maintain eye contact to show you're paying attention,
but don't stare. If they're not looking at you and
you've been looking longer than five seconds, you're staring. Relax
your stance. Uncross your arms, relax your shoulders, and pay
attention to what your face is doing. Communicate effectively.
Effective communication often boils down to remembering that you are
not the only participant in conversations or communication. The other
person needs to be considered for communication to consider both
parties' viewpoints, ideas, and development.
If you want to become a better communicator, download a
free e-book, How to Talk to Anyone: Ten Simple Tricks
to Have a Meaningful Conversation, at
www.selfimprovementvault.com or check the link in
the description.